Expose `__experimentalRegisterProductCollection` in @woocommerce/blocks-registry Package (#48141)
woocommerce/woocommerce: plugins/woocommerce-blocks/docs/third-party-developers/extensibility/register-product-collection.md

# Register Product Collection

`__experimentalRegisterProductCollection` function is part of the `@woocommerce/blocks-registry` package. This function allows 3PDs to register a new collection. This function accepts most of the arguments that are accepted by [Block Variation](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-variations/#defining-a-block-variation).

> [!WARNING]
> It's experimental and may change in the future. Please use it with caution.

**There are two ways to use this function:**

1. Using `@woocommerce/dependency-extraction-webpack-plugin` in a Webpack configuration: This will allow you to import the function from the package & use it in your code. For example:

	```tsx
	import { __experimentalRegisterProductCollection } from "@woocommerce/blocks-registry";
	```

2. Using the global `wc` object: This will allow you to use the function using the global JS object without importing it. For example:

	```tsx
	wc.wcBlocksRegistry.__experimentalRegisterProductCollection({
	...
	});
	```

> [!TIP]
> The first method is recommended if you are using Webpack.

> ## Examples of how to use `__experimentalRegisterProductCollection`

Reviewer: I feel like we should start with the definition of the arguments before moving on to examples. WDYT?

Author: I don't have strong opinion on this. I was thinking of examples as quick start guide. But I can move it to end. Thanks for the suggestion. I'll update it.

### Example 1: Registering a new collection

```tsx
__experimentalRegisterProductCollection({

>   name: "woocommerce/product-collection/my-custom-collection",

Reviewer: What about using the plugin-name here? And similar to the others.

```suggestion
  name: "plugin-name/product-collection/my-custom-collection",
```

Author: Good idea! As 3PDs will copy paste these examples, it's better to use `plugin-name` as placeholder. I'll update it 🚀

      const timeoutID = setTimeout(() => {
        setState({
          isPreview: false,
          previewMessage: "",
        });
      }, 5000);

      return () => clearTimeout(timeoutID);
    },
    initialPreviewState: {
      isPreview: true,
      previewMessage:
        "This is a preview message for my custom collection with advanced preview.",
    },
  },
});
```

### Example 4: Collection with inner blocks

As you can see below, it's also possible to define inner blocks for the collection. In the example below, we are defining inner blocks for the collection.

```tsx
__experimentalRegisterProductCollection({
  name: "woocommerce/product-collection/my-custom-collection-with-inner-blocks",
  title: "My Custom Collection with Inner Blocks",
  icon: "games",
  description: "This is a custom collection with inner blocks.",
  keywords: ["My Custom Collection with Inner Blocks", "product collection"],
  innerBlocks: [
    [
      "core/heading",
      {
        textAlign: "center",
        level: 2,
        content: "Title of the collection",
      },
    ],
    [
      "woocommerce/product-template",
      {},
      [
        ["woocommerce/product-image"],
        [

>           "woocommerce/product-price",

Reviewer: What about a product-title? One that has the `isLink` attribute set to true?

Author: I am not 100% sure about this. As we are using the `core/post-title` block variation, it requires some opinionated attributes. It's possible that we may replace it with our own block in future. Therefore, I don't want to add it. Also, I wanted to keep the example simple. But I can add it if you think it's needed. Let me know your thoughts. (For more info, you may check this slack discussion - p1719259564963079-slack-C05UMTA7W0P)

Here is how we are currently using it:

```
[
	'core/post-title',
	{
		textAlign: 'center',
		level: 3,
		fontSize: 'medium',
		style: {
			spacing: {
				margin: {
					bottom: '0.75rem',
					top: '0',
				},
			},
		},
		isLink: true,
		__woocommerceNamespace: PRODUCT_TITLE_ID,
	},
],
```

Reviewer: Agreed. I see there is more work to be done here and it's probably best not to mix things up. Resolved

- `name` (type `string`): A unique and machine-readable collection name. We recommend using the format `<plugin-name>/product-collection/<collection-name>`. Both `<plugin-name>` and `<collection-name>` should consist only of alphanumeric characters and hyphens (e.g., `my-plugin/product-collection/my-collection`).
- `title` (type `string`): The title of the collection, which will be displayed in various places including the block inserter and collection chooser.
- `description` (optional, type `string`): A human-readable description of the collection.
- `innerBlocks` (optional, type `Array[]`): An array of inner blocks that will be added to the collection. If not provided, the default inner blocks will be used.
- `isDefault`: ⚠️ It's set to `false` for all collections. 3PDs doesn't need to pass this argument.
- `isActive`: ⚠️ It will be managed by us. 3PDs doesn't need to pass this argument.

## Attributes

Attributes are the properties that define the behavior of the collection. All the attributes are *optional*. Here are some of the important attributes that can be passed to `__experimentalRegisterProductCollection`:

> - `query` (type `object`): The query object that defines the query for the collection. It can contain the following fields:

Reviewer: Nit: Would using a Markdown table here be a good idea?

We could use one with the following headings:
Argument, Type, Description, Accepted values(only where applicable)

Author: I was following example of [Block Variation documentation](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-variations/#defining-a-block-variation). I think we can keep it as it is. This will allow more flexibility in future in case we want to add more details for any argument. Does it make sense? Let me know your thoughts 🙂

Reviewer: Oh, thanks for pointing out this resource! It seems quite cohesive; Let's leave it as is! 🙌

    - `offset` (type `number`): The number of items to offset the query by.
    - `order` (type `string`): The order of the query. Possible values are `asc` and `desc`.
    - `orderBy` (type `string`): The field to order the query by.
    - `pages` (type `number`): The number of pages to query.
    - `perPage` (type `number`): The number of products per page.
    - `search` (type `string`): The search term to query by.

>     - `taxQuery` (type `object`): The tax query to filter the query by.

Reviewer: Would be nice to have an example here as well similar to `woocommerceAttributes`

Author: Makes sense, I will add an example for `taxQuery` as well. Thanks for the suggestion 🙏🏻

    - `featured` (type `boolean`): Whether to query for featured items.
    - `timeFrame` (type `object`): The time frame to query by.

>         - `operator` (type `string`): The operator to use for the time frame query. Possible values are `in` and `not-in`.

Reviewer: Possible values -> **Accepted** values?

Author: Makes sense. I'll update it.

    - `woocommerceAttributes` (type `array`): The attributes to query by.
        - For example, if you wanna fetch products with color `blue` & `gray` and size `Large` then you can pass `woocommerceAttributes` as `[{"termId":23,"taxonomy":"pa_color"},{"termId":26,"taxonomy":"pa_size"},{"termId":29,"taxonomy":"pa_color"}]`.
    - `woocommerceHandPickedProducts` (type `array`): The hand-picked products to query by. It should contain the product IDs.
    - `priceRange` (type `object`): The price range to query by.
        - `min` (type `number`): The minimum price.
        - `max` (type `number`): The maximum price.

- `displayLayout` (type `object`): The display layout object that defines the layout of the collection. It can contain the following fields:
    - `type` (type `string`): The type of layout. Possible values are `grid` and `stack`.
    - `columns` (type `number`): The number of columns to display.
    - `shrinkColumns` (type `boolean`): Whether the layout should be responsive.
- `hideControls` (type `array`): The controls to hide.

### Preview Attribute

> `preview` attribute can be used to set the preview state of the collection. It's an *optional* attribute. It can contain the following fields:

Reviewer: Nit: 
```suggestion
The `preview` attribute is optional, and it is used to set the preview state of the collection. It can contain the following fields:
```

- `initialPreviewState` (type `object`): The initial preview state of the collection. It can contain the following fields:
    - `isPreview` (type `boolean`): Whether the collection is in preview mode.
    - `previewMessage` (type `string`): The message to be displayed in the Tooltip when the user hovers over the preview label.
- `setPreviewState` (optional, type `function`): The function to set the preview state of the collection. It receives the following arguments:
    - `setState` (type `function`): The function to set the preview state. You can pass a new preview state to this function containing `isPreview` and `previewMessage`.
    - `attributes` (type `object`): The current attributes of the collection.

>     - `location` (type `object`): The location of the collection. Some of the possible values are `product`, `archive`, `cart`, `order`, `site`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `location` (type `object`): The location of the collection. Possible values are `product`, `archive`, `cart`, `order`, `site`.
````

For more info, you may check PR #46369, in which the Preview feature was added

> > [!CAUTION]

Reviewer: Nit: I don't think this repetition is needed.

Author: I don't have a strong opinion on this. I'll remove it :handshake:
